=head1 NAME 

pg2mma - convert PGMusic .pat file to MMA format

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<pg2mma> <infile> <outfile>

No options. Both infile and outfile must be specified. No files will
be overwritten.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This program is used to convert a PGMusic .pat file containing
extended patch definitions to a MMA format. The .pat files will
contain lines like:

=over 6

        [                                                      
        [Yamaha PSR 9000 - E.Piano                                 
        [     (P1)                                                             
        4.0.114=Galaxy EP
        4.0.117=Stage EP
        4.0.115=Polaris EP
        5.0.118=Jazz Chorus
        5.0.113=Hyper Tines
        4.0.119=Cool! EP
        4.0.120=Phase EP
        5.0.116=New Tines

=back

This program will convert the above to:

=over 6

Begin Patch Set

  // Yamaha PSR 9000 - E.Piano                                 
  //   (P1)                                                             
  4.0.114=GalaxyEp
  4.0.117=StageEp
  4.0.115=PolarisEp
  5.0.118=JazzChorus
  5.0.113=HyperTines
  4.0.119=Cool!Ep
  4.0.120=PhaseEp
  5.0.116=NewTines

End

=back

The names in the orginal file are converted to CamelCase; both ';' and []
comments are converted to MMA // style.

The conversion recognizes the "ONEBASED" keyword. When found, subsequent
patch values will be decremented by 1.

The produced files should be useable directly by mma. However, there are a
few cautions:

=over 6

=item * the .pat files we've looked at do contain errors. 

=item * many of the .pat files redefine existing GM voice names. You
will need to change these names or put up with warning
messages from MMA.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

mma(1)

=head1 RESOURCES

The latest version of this program is always distributed with
B<MMA> and is available at http://www.mellowood.ca/mma

=head1 AUTHOR

Bob van der Poel <bob@mellowood.ca>

=head1 LICENSE

pg2mma is Copyright 2002-2008 Bob van der Poel. Free use of this software is granted under the terms of the GNU General Public License.
